welcome to the wiki hidden web browsers
and GUI
coming live from all around the world
someone has a lot of background noise
you all mute thank you no worries okay
so as it's customary there is an agenda
we've been filling it out and a share my
screen and maybe we'll just have a quick
check so we'll start with a round of
updates and demos from what you've done
last week then I'm gonna introduce
quickly a little design resource I'm
working on for GUI team ideas - I won't
explain it now we should do a quick
check-in mid-quarter ok after him and we
should talk about for stem highlights
but first in order of appearance and
Rica can't be with us so very quickly
Henrique has been working on spectral
tests for ipfs desktop so there are some
gnarly edge cases around starting up
ipfs desktop and do you have an existing
repo was that repo shut down cleanly or
not like is there a lock file in it
anyway we've got some code that's
checking for various situations when
Dessel starts to try and make that as
robust as possible but previously there
was no tests for it which is bad so now
we have a test we have a test that
checks like no existing repo existing
repo existing repo and lock file which
is a big improvement and much more to do
on the testing of this that's what but
at least we have now the pattern of how
to do it and how to also run the tests
on OSX and Linux and windows water
procedure there's been some changes to
how our desktop downloads updates
previously it would wait till you quit
the app to download download updates and
reinstall them and that's obviously no
ideal for a taskbar app that's intended
to just sit and be running forever so it
now quietly goes and downloads newer
versions of
oh crap when it checks every few minutes
and then when it finds them it goes and
downloads and then will prompt you when
the download is completed successfully
that there is now locally on your
machine a newer version of the apps that
you could install so then you get a
notification and you opt-in and it will
stop the idea this demon stopped its
desktop and then update your update your
install to the latest version so if that
is a big improvement and then some other
smaller changes like fixing the context
menu things like that apparently he is
not blocked on anything and and he'd
like us to take a stab at checking
whether on OSX we can drop files right
on the taskbar which is kind of cool
okay that was my report for enery little
do you want to go next what was your
highlight room last week mostly fast
then let me share my screen yeah so like
the highlight was post them our meetups
I prefer to meetups for what's great I
was gonna say like the item in agenda is
we should take a moment unpack for
people who went there what was
particularly good about for them so we
can cycle back to all that very fact
then I quickly go over remaining stuff
so it was a short week as I started
exciting development in the way we
translate our applications there's an
issue when sort of unpacked upcoming
native integration between transifex
which is crowdsourcing service we use
for sourcing translations from ipfs
community and github which we use for
code and ideally we'll have full
automation for both publishing new
strings to transifex
and also when the language is 100%
translated transifex will open APR to
the specific project with that specific
language so that way
no longer have the situation when
language is ready
100% translated but it sort of hangs in
the limbo until their salaries or
repository maintainer gets a
notification to make a synchronized
string so hopefully we'll get access to
this new feature soon and I plan to test
it on the aquifers Explorer repository
and ideally if that goes well we'll
probably enable to Edward if there is a
better place to test it I'm all ears but
I feel that's a small enough place to
start
yeah and so I provided some feedback on
the proto school around files tutorials
mostly like prior yeah like prior
discussions and some code samples I had
around remembered were there and had
some secret meeting with browser vendor
this week and also started prototyping
change to make it possible for ipfs
companion to opt out from with direct /
website similarly when you are visiting
a website and you want to disable ad
blocking only for that specific website
we want to do the same for companion
just too and like make sure people don't
disable extension because it breaks one
specific website it should improve stuff
for people so yeah I'm not blocking
anything but if you are blocked because
of me let me know I have a small backlog
I need to go through and next week I
want to like change the software service
and start adding upload to MF s because
we have a very nice web UI but our
browser extension if you right click on
image or just quickly upload it using
the alt interface it won't add files to
MF as to the files in web UI so we
finally should make sure those files are
added to an office and that's that's it
from me thank you
any quick questions yes
can I ask about the trans facts like how
does it decide that you're done with a
certain language is it like oh this one
person has volunteered enough strings to
cover the language or have agreed that
the translation is valid or is there any
QA okay so just in short is that
translation is a finite set of strings
so it's let's say there's a hundred
strings dog translate ideally I think it
will be possible to decide when the pull
request is created it will be created
either when you hit the 100% strings
being translated or there's also you can
have to set two different roles in your
translation team you can have regular
translators and reviewers and only
reviewer can mark specific string as
reviewed so there's like a quality
control and you can probably will be
able to set that pull request is only
created when all strings are reviewed
we'll probably start with just this
first option when the 100% strings is
translated just so that strings are get
populated to a repository when like our
translation teams will grow and we'll
have more than one or freed people and
like dedicated reviewer ideally to then
I would probably switch to like a higher
quality control we could probably do a
specific different settings for
different languages I did not see the UI
on the drastic excited for this feature
but expect updates on the issue I linked
and there's no one employed here whose
job is translation right this is not
just like community volunteers that do
it yeah so far yeah okay if this number
questions then we will jump on to
highlights from deal goal
well hello
so highlights from last week basically I
worked on UI stuff and I'll show it so
basically we had a problem when we
fetched the Directorate with many files
that the UI hang and there was no
indication to the user what was
happening everyone thought everything
was crashing but no so I made a small
animation like those cards from YouTube
I don't know if you guys are aware of
that when you are starts when you're in
a on YouTube and the videos aren't
loading basically you have an animation
a CAD like image something like this you
guys could see that this was festival
because I have opened it to Mary banks
let me take another thing ya know
everything is super fast my computer so
I'll probably just I was I was having to
test it by going into the react tools
and like toggling the state on the file
list yeah yeah but no but we changed
their lodging so we we can't do that
right now I think that's okay yeah but
your gear shows it off real bit yeah
yeah so basically there's an animation
that disabled puts a small opacity on a
list and is like if it's like showing
that something is happening yeah that's
it
apart from that yeah I refactor the eye
then a bit the other testing with the
guys from Watson if they knew what was
happening
so this is the version that's the
production version of the why do I do
this is the new we're talking about - at
f5 drop down a thousand homes basically
I think we we know how this works
because we implemented it and and I use
it but every every person I talk to they
didn't understand the difference this is
what happened is this creates a new
folder - just a blank always with
nothing inside and this lovely but with
everyone I doubt everyone thought that
this was adding a file and this was
creating an empty folder instead of
adding a folder without without there
and other saying this my basis this name
doesn't help because basically this is
to put div so it's to import something
that you already own ideas like my
browser and a person who doesn't know it
has no know what's happening with it
so my refactor was i I saw how Google
Drive and Dropbox was making for example
Dropbox doesn't have a drop-down it has
a lot of choices but the icons help a
lot because we can see that this is a
load this is the new folder and drive
it's like we have we you can create a
new folder or you can upload stuff so
basically my refactor was to to join
these two and now we have a new folder
here so you can just create a new folder
and now the eye drop yes I change this
name because at two ipfs I don't think
this is 100% correct because we're
adding to our a book so I just put the
egg here and inside you you can add
files and folders and this from my DFS
because I think it's clearer that you
can add something from a DFS
so like this is a core simple but I it
had some thoughts around it I have to
see what was the best choice and I think
it's
[Music]
yeah then I played I did some small
fixes to the UI of the selected actions
because but just little things right now
this is still a work in progress
I'm refactoring this list to use the
react to actualized to deserve all the
like because when we were listing so
many files it's a bit slow so like we're
doing in the peer stage had this table
that just only renders what visible on
its doing we're going to use this budget
in the pounce
this there's a question from Terry's
yeah yeah so back where you were showing
the prefecture and where you add by path
like grad from IDF s6 description inside
it so says add by patch are you planning
to change that to CID or do people that
was a question I had is because we can
do the CID I think probably ipfs address
is perhaps the least ambiguous
I mean if it's like the thing you said
that hadn't for in it this is the thing
I would choose like added IPS path or a
CID or whatever like whatever's the
thing that the context is the way they
usually interact with it so if someone's
new and they don't know which concepts
are connected to them personally it
might it might not be terrible to just
put like two examples on that yeah modal
that's like this kind of thing well this
kind of thing I love that idea
okay all right thank you so next thing
I'm going to push to the to the next
version of the WIPO I basically is just
listing the files with react virtualized
we have to always to to continue to see
the complaint once generated I think
that's it and I want to start looking at
the OPR because we had the shaking and
like still haven't spent I think this
loosely falls under okay as we're
improving what do I is vitally yeah
question from Ellis question on the so I
saw you've got the new folder pulled it
out of the menu is that does that do the
same thing as the things in the oh no no
no it doesn't and and I did this to
basically so people wouldn't have that
belt but okay
I think it just creates a new and empty
photo yeah yeah and then working so
adding a folder in there having a father
oh yeah I see I get it yeah you're
adding a folder with files yeah okay I
get it
the thing that was happening is this
these options the two of them with the
same icon they people wouldn't
understand
I think this way is clear I thought of
putting this create new when a folder
but the text is it's too much text I
don't like if you if you were gonna have
them both in the same place you could
have the one that has files in it have
like pictures of little pieces of paper
sticking out of the folder this is the
best option but if you were gonna do the
pictures yeah it could help a lot if we
had like them plus on these icons we we
can compose two icons we can do it yeah
but still I think it's a very option to
have them follow outside because you
know it's just to ask why the FS add
anything
I think I think no one is against the
change you have made I think it's
definitely an improvement maybe in the
interim you could say
hold on files and there's quite a boast
but are you intentionally avoiding using
the word upload because for technical
people this is some giant lie yeah okay
it's not it's simply not correct it's
risky dad that is sad you're right but
it's import that's better
are there any like normal human used
words very sad
that's pretty good yeah that's like this
for example on this case I was going to
put in order for my PFS but I prefer to
just don't use important just from my
PFS because it's we're adding talent
sure is respectfully raising a hand the
the reason that their separate file and
folder is because of some technical
reason right oh no he's gone there yeah
it's the sadness you can't have a dialog
where you can select a single file or
poke the wound again like it would be
nice if we just had add file that would
just allow us to select a folder every
morning that's the ideal this is why we
have trouble this is the web platform
don't worry about it it's getting better
every day
as a reminder Dropbox has this same
distinction distinction so I know it's
terrible but there is precedent yeah we
have a problem it's yeah I think that's
my issue with AD is like AD doesn't
imply existing to me whereas import or
upload implies that it's a thing that
already exists interesting okay should
we let's put a pin in this because
clearly we could like then you want the
meaning of words is a topic that means
we could talk about it forever but with
Terry could you drop some thoughts on on
a relevant issue that maybe Tiago will
link to thank you kindly
Jim Pixar just beaming files so I'm
gonna ask Jim's that also comment on an
issue
beat them into the interplanet everybody
else's turn
wait do go that's its update which must
mean me hit me share a screen there's
lots of faces that you can't see that I
can see in there distracting this thing
I did some work on the analytic stuff it
was initially the change that's happened
to the analytics is a there is a now a
bunch of unit tests in them so I now
know it works which was better than
before I just assumed it worked and then
I wrote the unit test and found a bunch
of bugs so that's a recurring story that
everyone should taking it off and then I
also paid attention to the comments that
I was getting on the issue that Lydell
wrote ages ago he was like if you make
this thing opt-in then we'll get almost
zero useful analytics and then you've
also got like a self-selecting tiny
group of people who deliberately opt in
analytics so it's been refracted what it
does now is it respects your browser's
do-not-track
setting so if your browser if you've got
navigator do-not-track
enabled then analytics is disabled in
web UI and in that instance where you've
neither explicitly opted in or opted out
of analytics and we are not tracking you
there is a call to action added to the
status page that you can see here it
says clean so like we have anonymized
the data in as much as we are not
tracking see ids we are not tracking
personal info we're not tracking file
paths within your local repository and
we're not tracking which appears you're
connected to it is just like what
browser are you using
and what's the screen size and what's
the operating system and things that we
can use to direct what and what
platforms that we test on and stuff like
that so it's telemetry rather than
analytics and so this now works and you
can enable it and now I should have
analytics mobile so if I go to my
settings page I can see that I am
helping to improve this out by sending
anonymous analytics paper and if I open
this here'll there's now some useful
words that tell
user in human language what is happening
when this occurs the next step with that
is an after lights and terraform to make
appear on our projects so that we can
run countly on our own servers so that
this planetary data doesn't go through
any third parties so this is via like
the respect your users privacy like
let's not dump all their interactions
with web UI on Google Analytics let's
self host cell phone system so that is
all done apart from the infrastructure
stuff so we're currently using a just a
generation droplet that I spun up just
to test it out and next step is get it
running on our actual address infra this
question does something I do add a link
to the word can't leave him there
Yeah right I'll do that no worries that
is a good idea you can share it your
questions oh it's fine yeah so people
can check what candy is yeah of course
that is a good idea I can link to their
privacy policy as well and I was gonna
since then that he's done I mean doc
deter otherwise I've been noodling
around with IP issues today has been
sucked into you
Diego's done a bunch of good work
updating the IP or the Explorer
components to use the current version of
the IPL dapi not the bleeding edge new
version of the IP of the Oakland but is
at least up to date but in trying to
roll that out to the Explorer I peeled
EDI our website there's a bunch of
problems and it's not clear what the
solution is yet so I'm going to keep on
packing there otherwise yeah I've got a
solution to the mixed content error and
it was just that was if you load web UI
dog if that's tired today it you get
annex content loading error as it tries
to create a dns multi adder out of
of the current locations origin and it
does it completely incorrectly due to
the confluence of about four different
bugs in four different projects that I
spent some time last week fixing anyway
I think we're super close on the t dot
for release ooh it's so close mostly
because of all the work there do
Christine and it's being held up on all
the work that I haven't done so I'm
going to get that finished exciting I'm
just in the process of adding a create
react out with JSI PFS example do James
look at this so that we don't break that
again because we broke it last year and
we did a lot of work to make sure that
we weren't using any language pinches in
Java scripts that couldn't be easily
transpired by trading like that we had a
bunch of errors either ago and we fix
them so I'm gonna add in a nick demo app
to do that so that there is something as
part of the release process where we
just check about things like that still
work that's me
next up is and everyone else in the
co-working space for you'll enjoy
hearing um Fossum I spent most of my
time the main stuff I've done has not
had really anything to do with GUI I was
updating documentation for chapter
leaders in the organizing repo so like
you can order stickers now etcetera very
exciting um so next steps which is
really just permanently is that file API
and I really appreciate Lytle hopping in
there with some suggestions and Alan
directing this gesture and all of this
and all that examples and stuff is very
appreciated I promise I will get to it
someday playing it and then I will be
next week in San Francisco with Portia
and Michael doing kind of a community
scene hack week and one of the things we
know we want to look at regarding proto
school is whether we leave it in view
for migrated to view press with
some of the key factors being like
strangers who haven't used either tool
you need to use it and then like whether
it's easier to pull text like text into
the components or the components into
the text or something like this isn't I
understand the basic principle but if
anyone is actually familiar with you and
you press and has feels please strap
them in the issue before we start
messing around with this and making
decisions that we may or may not regret
a question from Ellen troll
I just wanted what the difference was
between view and view press would anyone
more well I mean view operates an
equivalent level of react is a rendering
library view press operates an
equivalent level of catsby like it's a
static site generator with whistles and
bells on
so the static site generator that uses
fie
okay I got and it's a modern progressive
web a static site generator so it's
quite you know I think one of the things
that would affect is like how the URLs
work and how then Google Analytics works
with that so like I postponed the issue
about making sure Google Analytics works
in view because it would work
differently with few press that it was
my impression so the difference is their
interview press the URL structure is
defined by the framework and whereas
with view it's entirely up to you
there's nothing with view you can make
good URLs but it's on you to do that but
the key difference is it's being a
static site like the SEO slash
discoverability is improved by the fact
that you have a bunch o web pages
instead of one JavaScript bundle okay I
think one of the other things that was
mentioned in that issue but one of our
trusted leaders and I don't know if this
is true or not it was 35 if we make a
static site then we could host it which
he seems to be implying that the it's
not true that you can do that with you
does that sound accurate I think it is
already hosted and you could do it with
both um but
static sites work nicely on all IPS that
is true you need to watch out for a
little URLs we add a bunch of problems
we get to be we get to be plugging works
kind of weirdly but it works
straight Turin this is going to be the
core this is the core where we touch all
my triggering issues so relative URLs in
static sites very few of the modern
static site builders in fact none of
them anything with a client-side router
does a terrible job of relative URLs so
URLs that are relative to the current
location if you want your site to be
viewable both mounted under slash ipfs
cid or mounted on the root of a domain
that's the problem
I've just spent a good half hour
chatting to Chris about that the other
day and I've kind of gone round every
illness of Gremory yeah every JavaScript
a static site builder and open like
either opened or commented on an
existing issue it's like be great if
this supported relative URLs is at least
one interesting use case and the mocks
team did great work at least making a
plugin for Gatsby it's interesting that
it's like that only works for IPS sites
like they'd still like no
general-purpose relatives URL solution
for client-side JavaScript routing one
question for you Toryism I guess I
should probably has come non-issue but
it's interesting that there's no
conversation about them should it be in
react like the rest of our stuff I don't
wish to demand a monoculture but there
is a certain and minor maintenance
burden added to the team supporting more
than one but I I don't have strong
enough feelings to wade into the
argument it's just interesting that it
hasn't even come up
I basically arrived conversations that
Michael had or the I don't know if he
had they shouldn't be spelled it I don't
know but I don't know the answers that
and I'm not deep enough into you yet
like I mean I don't have to learn if you
press or learn react or keep the try
learning to you so I personally am
flexible but I think it's generally we
need to do something where we can
clearly document for people who have not
used the framework how to build a
tutorial that goes in and have some kind
of like easy template pictures arrows
where it like where the text ends up
when you put it in this file whatever it
is so if somebody wants to start
conversation that's fine I just don't
have any information to participate I'm
fit I'm very happy that you guys are all
meeting up in San Francisco and having a
quick that's going to be super useful
all right let any more fitori any more
questions okay we're in the second half
of the meeting and we go Alan sure thank
you yes to go so I'm sure how is your
week been
what's your highlights made any more
sweet CLI tools okay wait a second oh
all right
so let's go for it I've got demo so
that's gonna come in a second so fix for
sorted errors at the moment if you if
there's an error while you start up the
demon and JSI BFS then you swallow it
and just let exits and you're left with
like what you typed in at the command
line and nothing else and then you know
back at the client lying again and
that's really annoying but you can if
you put the debug flag in you can see
that there was actually an error but it
was getting swallowed so I fixed that
and I think I was merged this morning
and that PR also had like a really it
was good for the idea fest because it
simplified the client in far like a lot
and it also allowed us to do stuff like
pipe it like echo some text pipe it to
ipfs ad and then pipe that to to FS CID
base 52 which is the tool to allow you
to just mess around with C IDs and
change them in this case the base 22 and
the prior to this change that the second
part of that the base very to thing
would fail because OFS would start up
and because I PFF s ad was already
running it had a lock on the repo and
the second bit of the pipeline tried to
get a lock on a repo would fail and
that's really annoying so this fixed
that by allowing this command the
command handlers to instead of getting
an echo FS instance automatically they
have to request it and so the ones that
don't actually use a repo will write the
FS like the CID tool are free to work
without causing that error so that's
good
secondly I've made some progress on CATV
one base 42 by default in let me just
share my screen share
I just did that today did this today can
you see my screen yes yes ok this is the
command line oh okay so you can now do
you JSI PFS ad Stesha i recursively and
i'm gonna add in my pictures older and
that'll spit out a whole bunch of stuff
but you'll notice see ids that it spits
out a bethi's which is super cool huh
and so I did that this morning after
I've all I've done is the UNIX FS
importer and I've just changed basically
changed defaults fixed up the ter tests
change the default for the CID library
to when you call base encoded string it
will return a base 52 encoded string and
so I'm moving on to em FS and like all
of the rest of the API is like objects
and stuff like that I have a link on the
don't let me just stop sharing because
that's the end of my demo and dude you
do to do the iPad link on there on the
notice there for the oh yeah okay no I
didn't put a proper leg anyway there's a
output they link to the issue where you
can track all of the PRS that I'm adding
to to do that so then as you know from
last week oh I've been working on the
happy 18 a refactor which is done and
now merged not real yet released so
that's that's good that took a while
it's huge but it is it's good because
there's someone reported that happy 16
has a security vulnerability in one of
its modules so it was timely and then
yes so last week I demoed a really rough
version of this thing called ie
I am I'm I profess store manager and I
kind of finished it off a little bit and
and it's kind of its kind of good
there's a I think one bug I need to sort
out but I'm pretty happy with it at the
moment apart from it doesn't work on
Windows and I talked with Henrique about
this and we came to the conclusion that
it was hard to make it work on windows
and so there's some work to do that
anyway I'm not blocked on anything and
I'm continuing the co db1 based veg to
by default charge hopefully this weekend
next and and yeah like you know I feel
as though having worked on it today
finally there's I guess I don't think
it's going to take very long if I
actually get the time to do it really so
we can have it out in the next release
or the run after perhaps so it could be
very very soon that JSI DFS has this
whether or not we sync that with a go
ipfs release and when that happens is
another matter which will need to sort
out but I think step one is just get it
get it all ready and ready to go in PRS
and
and yeah fact and the other cool news is
I was talking to Bosch gate this morning
and he is he's kind of confident that
the DHT PR is now almost ready to emerge
it's just making its way through CI and
Jenkins is having a bad day as usual say
it's taking some time that's okay thanks
for listening any questions
Hugo Merced yes Helen V Garland uh I'm D
and E are you using binaries are still
using NPM is do you think NPM I haven't
made any more progressive that I was I
was just warning if you messed with the
package and you and if you world I
actually make a binary of but yeah okay
I didn't know I I just got it like I
made it a lot better from the point of
view of like me and my OCD like how the
code works and also why are known for
their whole bunch of issues and
suggestions which I made some some
improvements with so it's changed a bit
but it's a lot more stable and a lot
better than it was I mean literally last
week when I demoed it
I just got it working and yeah and I
think the swapping an NPM for something
else is something I'm gonna leave for
the future or request welcome right now
that works and that works good enough
for me and yes it's actually really
useful for me because it installs it
into a different path and uses its own
config and repo so I can have my like a
normally NPM link my my Jeff's idea
Festus away I can have jazz ipfs there's
my usual like development version but I
can also have like ipfs as Eva J s will
go depending on what I'm what I'm using
the vine so that's that's super useful
for me anyway so even if it doesn't
benefit anyone else help myself
perfect oh no on what you said about
base 32 well that we exclaimed Buffy
and it's worth for the users following
along at home buffy is like a pet name
for the base 32 CID update project
because many of the popular IP LD
formats when serialized and give you a
CID will start with BA FY also that
connects to the previous point around
our no static site generators build out
things with relative links the whole one
of the driving forces around migrating
today 32 is so that we can start to use
IP FSC IDs as domains or as subdomains
so that we if we can't teach the entire
universe of web developers to use
relative URLs then we can just fix it
the other way which is GC IDs everywhere
including in domains yeah
hello mr. Diaz which I was connect yes
so basically there was a in Belgium
attending FOSDEM bunch of good things
happened King motivates was great and
what the one of one of those was really
good chat we had all together about the
CI and they be basically just got us to
okay let's just do it so basically
that's what what happened I was able to
get the tribest support to actually
migrate our stuff tutor.com thing it's
kind of the enterprise stuff and now we
can actually give them money and have
our own runners and not be cute so
basically what I'm doing now is kind of
make sure everything works there at
least with our current setup and right
now everything seems to be running okay
so I'm going to need to do a bunch of
cool
requests to all the ripples maybe some
tweaks on Asia to make some stuff better
but not much else is needed to start
moving to Travis what's the payoff Hager
why why even bother is there been some
improvement well the reward is there
been some significant improvement
perhaps this is a better name than
Jenkins I don't think that's a doesn't
warrant all the effort Hugo what is it
better Travis
compared to Jenkins yeah of course
so for people who aren't following along
with this story could you just speak to
is it better oh yeah hi hammer so our
current solution is Jenkins which
actually works
pretty badly in the edited highlights is
it 10x faster is it 2x faster oh if it
if it is faster it probably will not be
much faster okay it will be much more
stable great and we can actually kind of
when we have jobs like timing out
randomly we can just restart that
specific job which is really really
useful so in that regard it's faster
because the only if you start like the
Windows runner or the micro runner
instead of restarting the whole pipeline
that takes like an hour for the J
sacrifice so if you think about it it's
will be much faster as far as developers
that need to do that's like a million
times a day so it's gonna be much better
there's still some stuff that we cannot
to on Travis that's we were thinking
about doing it on other CIS like manual
jobs to do like deployments to NPM and
select add like basically doing the
releases
so we need to still think about it a
little bit maybe we can find a middle
ground at least for the top level repos
let's take what much time to manage that
the smaller ones but we will discuss
that next week in London so everything
will be great
more stuff basically left my pack my
backpack in the air B&B so basically I'm
no like USB cables no laptop no nothing
I can not even read Riis charge my smart
watch so no watch - but Alex was kind
enough to bring my backpack with him so
he's waiting for me at London so Monday
I'll get all that back now I'm kind of
working on the old laptop off with a
half setup of some kind so yeah so what
I will be holding is basically dates
talking with the infra Teaneck infra
team next week finishing up the Travis
be ours and probably also the monocytes
be ours because Jacob finally got some
time to work on em Plex and it seems to
be going pretty well
so we will probably be able to finish
the bundle sized stuff in the next
couple of days so yeah that's very happy
and there's been stuff in a chat about
various descriptions of how CI is now
better so everyone is in support of this
great endeavor that you have done thank
you very much mr. Diaz Jim pick do you
want anything you want to share I
haven't really done any front-end stuff
is doing are distributed tracing this
week but as everybody I think we are
cooks because I'm going to look at this
that that community
not yet not the newest you shiny but a
bunch of who are on Twitter it's another
way to do the same thing okay I might be
next week yeah perfect
David yes did you want to add anything I
always like being so fast and I wanted
to see how are you I joined screech here
are their beds yeah everything gonna
bill real fast and Hugo made it happen
and David said it should happen it's
good all right that is a round of
updates we don't have some huge amount
of time left for our agenda so let's get
to it
has everybody okay there's nothing in it
except the things that I added so we can
get through them pretty quickly I just
shared this with the design team weekly
cool which happens just before this call
every week if you were interested in
visual design issues so things have been
happening in the background is I've been
pairing with Porsche and Terry on a few
different front-end issues and I was
responsible for kind of taking a
Goethe's original UI kit five EFS and
turning it into ipfs CSS and then beyond
so that kind of made that took what she
had designed and turned it into a set of
variables and reusable constructs that
we could use across all of our web
front-ends but then after that there's
been no real kind of progress on a
design system or a guidebook that other
people could follow that would help them
make their things look more like ipfs
things so I've made a little start while
I was recovering from being hit by a car
and also in Belgium I was like I would
like to do some work on this I have
stuff like you know as you do recovery
time
so this is going to turn into a project
that I'm going to check in with people
who are in the design Channel and start
to pin down what we think are those
building blocks to make
good accessible clear coherent user
interfaces for idea vests where it's
going to start is with what we've got
already
so we already use tachyons as basically
the foundation of our design system and
then we just override a few things to
make it look i PF s flavored so this is
going to be that walkthrough and that
reference point for people who aren't so
deeply involved in front-end development
so that they can go I like what is the
what is the navy color that is the idea
that's maybe kind of like these are just
simple questions that cost people a few
minutes every day because there's no
there's no canonical resource so that's
thing if you are interested in it then
talk to me and let's make it better it's
super cool
any questions I can't see the chat so
just shout them out if you have them if
not I'm gonna flip over to it's
literally just that they can't see the
chance and I'm gonna in the chat window
dossie background yes
thanks Allen it that came out of the
conversation previously about what the
best hype all from notebook is dots
squares lines and obviously dots one so
I made sure to reference that it's all
about that it's all about the in jokes
what else was on the agenda all these
things are in the way okay okay I'll
check in and we need to schedule some
time to talk about that so I'm gonna
contact you out Lapham just call and
just say how's it going how's oh okay I
was doing and we need to then take that
to the especially and just make sure
that we update our update with our
progress so that we can do a better job
of kind of tracking if we are moving in
the direction we thought we were moving
all right we've got five minutes left
for stem highlight who hasn't um some of
us went for stem and it was really great
just to like set the tone of this like I
went to a couple of great talks there
was an open source design track which I
think I don't remember seeing a previous
for stem so that was like program
so they got a whole day of people
talking about designing for open source
of one of those things was a great talk
from doesn't called Aaron who works at
the localization lab and what they do is
they use things like transifex services
like transifex which you may have heard
of from the way that we do translations
to collaborate on the localization for
technical projects that have some
benefit to privacy security on the web
things like open source projects that
are supporting like human decency and
freedom and ethics on the web what they
do is they help they help you produce
better translations by workshopping
things where you've got a very technical
term like say pluggable transports was
the examples we gave and my ears were
like pluggable transports that's the
kind of phrase that we might have to
translate in IP this world and she made
points around like how you really need
to fax her in it's not just a question
of like straight one-to-one translate
over the words which we kind of have a
sense of like translation is never that
simple but also like thinking about
things how like if you're talking about
privacy in your product in fact in
cultures like an in Thailand
the word privacy is very like translates
more closely to the word like secrecy
and has overtones of like you have
something to hide not it's it's not
presented as like a right in in a
culture where you generally are more
public about more things like it's not
trivial to translate the word privacy
because you can end up suggesting that
you're you're seeking to hide things
that you are embarrassed around not like
I am engaging my right as a human so
this organization helps you basically
come up with better translations for
your product so I'd like to be following
up with her and help seeing if we can
get IP fences there was like music to my
ears when she said like there's two ways
that we do it and one of them is through
transifex I was like yes go Lydell like
we made the right choice so I'm pretty
excited about that as you might be able
to
and yeah I got to hear it welcome the
new axiom tool
yeah but I won't go on too much longer
and idle did you wanna want talk about
this one the project good just like a
quick putting pin on the board that
Mozilla in the Mozilla room during force
them there also talk about how they do
did and the localization currently and
one of recent developments is project
fluent it's basically a framework for
creating translations in Mozilla
products products it's compatible with
ICU standard which we picked as the
potentially future-proof choice so
that's another good decision on our end
and I feel the they are rapidly
iterating and we should follow
development of this project and I hope
eventually it will grow big enough and
robust enough so we can replace the
current I 18 next libraries which are
sort of like maintained by a commercial
entity and there's like a package touch
to that I feel this one may be a safer
choice in the long run I think if um I
have less concerns of that and more like
trying to write the ICU format values in
the choice in objects you know
translation locales is really fiddly so
it Lewin makes that easier buy more for
it yeah I feel they already started
addressing things that are not that well
handled in I 18 next so I probably if I
find some of the time I will be starting
evaluating it maybe introduce it
somewhere nice that is time is there any
final questions or statements and you're
months ahead
if no I'm not hearing any one then that
has been it's being weakly IP events in
web browsers and GUI T sync see you same
time same place next week thanks very
much Hey